add ide deprecation and add'l features release note (#2439)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-versions/release-notes/04-Nov-2022/ide-features-ide-deprecation.md

---

> title: "Extra features in new IDE, and classic IDE deprecation"

Reviewer: curious, are there version numbers we can use to talk about the new features and the old features? some specificity could be useful/helpful to people who are scanning the RNs on the DevHub site.

Author: good callout @nghi-ly ! hey @bossnunta - wondering if you know this re: version numbers?

Author: hey @nghi-ly - Nate has replied [here](https://dbt-labs.slack.com/archives/C043H8Z0P7H/p1669661560300659?thread_ts=1668813792.920259&cid=C043H8Z0P7H) 

> Unfortunately, we don't have version number for MT yet -- we do have that for ST though. These changes were ready with [v1.1.67.0](https://dbt-labs.slack.com/archives/C0164QWG2NA/p1668635992410339) for ST

Author: since we don't have versions for both st/mt - is it best to keep it as is? ideally, Nate would like the release note published this week

> id: "ide-features-ide-deprecation"

Reviewer: specificity could also be helpful here too (e.g., newer features and more deprecations)

description: "Enhancement and Deprecation: Extra features in new IDE, and classic IDE deprecation"

> sidebar_label: "Enhancement and Deprecation: Extra features in new IDE, and classic IDE deprecation"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: "Enhancement and deprecation: Extra features in the new IDE and classic IDE deprecation"
```

Reviewer: consider a shorter sidebar label. this is quite long for the leftbar.

tags: [Nov-29-2022]

---

### Extra features in new and refreshed IDE

> The new and refreshed version of the Cloud IDE has launched four brand-new additional features, making it easier and faster for you to develop in the IDE.

Reviewer: any version number to include here?

Author: see above comment

> The new and refreshed version of the Cloud IDE has launched four brand-new additional features, making it easier and faster for you to develop in the IDE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The refreshed version of the dbt Cloud IDE has launched four brand-new additional features, making it easier and faster for you to develop in the IDE.
```

The new features are:

> - **Formatting** &mdash; Format your files with a click of a button, powered by sqlfmt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Formatting** &mdash; Format your dbt SQL files to a single code style with a click of a button. This uses the tool [sqlfmt](https://github.com/tconbeer/sqlfmt).
```

> - **Git diff view** &mdash; Ability to see what you've changed in a file before you make a pull request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Git diff view** &mdash; Highlights the changes in a file before opening a pull request.
```

- **dbt autocomplete** &mdash; There are four new types of autocomplete features to help you develop faster:

>     - Use ref to autocomplete your model names

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Use `ref` to autocomplete your model names
```

>     - Use source to autocomplete your source name + table name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Use `source` to autocomplete your source name + table name
```

>     - Use macro to autocomplete your arguments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Use `macro` to autocomplete your arguments
```

>     - Use env var to autocomplete env var

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Use `env var` to autocomplete env var
```

Reviewer: seemed like these ^ needed to be in code font or bolded or linked to some other page for details.

> - **Dark mode**	&mdash;  Use dark mode in the Cloud IDE for a great viewing experience in low-light environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Dark mode**	&mdash;  Use dark mode in the dbt Cloud IDE for low-light environments.
```

Reviewer: sugg: 

- conciseness 
- when referencing a product, use the full product name "dbt Cloud" (or "dbt Core")

Read more about all the [Cloud IDE features](/docs/get-started/dbt-cloud-features).

### Classic IDE deprecation notice

> In December 2022, dbt Labs will deprecate the classic IDE in favor of the [new and refreshed IDE](/docs/get-started/develop-in-the-cloud) for _all_ dbt Cloud users. You will no longer be able to access the classic IDE and dbt Labs may introduce changes that break the classic IDE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In December 2022, dbt Labs will deprecate the classic IDE. The [new and refreshed IDE](/docs/get-started/develop-in-the-cloud) will be available for _all_ dbt Cloud users. You will no longer be able to access the classic IDE and dbt Labs might introduce changes that break the classic IDE.
```

Reviewer: sugg: 

- conciseness
- for translation purposes, only use "may" when it refers to permission. ex: you may open the car.

> The dbt Labs Support team will only support and resolve any issues related to the new and refreshed IDE. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With deprecation, dbt Labs will only support the new and refreshed IDE. 
```

Reviewer: sugg: conciseness

Author: thank you! @nghi-ly - qq: isn't the suggestion a passive voice? the reason i included 'dbt labs' was to make it active.

Author: With deprecation, dbt Labs will only support the new and refreshed IDE.

Reviewer: updated my Add a suggestion, per our meeting, @mirnawong1 ! feel free to commit it when you have a chance!
